Rewrite running on AWS EC2 instance (#4272)
guardicore/monkey: docs/content/features/run_on_aws.md

---
title: "Run on AWS EC2 Instances"
draft: false
description: "Run Infection Monkey on AWS EC2 instances"
tags: ["aws", "ec2", "run"]
pre: "<i class='fa-brands fa-aws'></i> "
---

## Description

The Infection Monkey can run on AWS EC2 instances using the AWS Systems Manager

> (SSM) Agent. The SSM Agent is software installed on each EC2 instance that

Reviewer: Let's add links wherever relevant.

> The Infection Monkey can run on AWS EC2 instances using the AWS Systems Manager
> (SSM) Agent. The SSM Agent is software installed on each EC2 instance that
> allows for updates, management, and configuration. It receives requests from
> AWS Systems Manager and executes them on the instance, using the Amazon Message
> Delivery Service to report back status and execution details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Infection Monkey can run on AWS EC2 instances using the AWS Systems Manager
(SSM) Agent. Each EC2 instance has an SSM Agent installed for updating,
managing, and configuring the instance. It executes requests received from the
AWS Systems Manager, and uses the Amazon Message
Delivery Service to report back status and execution details.
```

Reviewer: Is the SSM Agent installed on every EC2 instance by default?

> This feature lets you execute the Infection Monkey Agent on selected EC2

Reviewer: "selected"? On what basis? Or do you mean selected by the user?

Author: Selected by the user

> instances without manual intervention, enabling simulation of various scenarios
> across your AWS infrastructure by running the Monkey on multiple instances.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
instances without the requirement of manual installation, enabling the simulation of
various attack scenarios across your AWS infrastructure.
```

> EC2 instances must be configured with the SSM agent and the necessary IAM roles

Reviewer: "agent" or "Agent"? Choose one.

> to allow Monkey Island to execute commands. The Monkey Island will

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to allow Infection Monkey to execute commands. The Monkey Island will
```

> automatically detect running AWS instances and offer the option to deploy the
> Monkey on them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
automatically detect running AWS instances and offer the option to run the
Monkey Agent on them.
```

---
title: "Run on AWS EC2 Instances"
draft: false
description: "Run Infection Monkey on AWS EC2 instances"
tags: ["aws", "ec2", "run"]
pre: "<i class='fa-brands fa-aws'></i> "
---

## Description

The Infection Monkey can run on AWS EC2 instances using the
[AWS Systems Manager (SSM) Agent](
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/systems-manager/latest/userguide/what-is-systems-manager.html).
Each EC2 instance has an [SSM Agent](
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/systems-manager/latest/userguide/ssm-agent.html)
installed for updating, managing, and configuring the instance.
It executes requests received from the AWS Systems Manager, and uses the Amazon

> Message Delivery Service to report back status and execution details.

Reviewer 2: This context is fantastic. Should we add links for AWS Systems Manager and AMDS? Or are they not important/

This feature lets you run Infection Monkey Agent on your chosen EC2
instances without the requirement of manual installation, enabling the simulation of

> various attack scenarios across your AWS infrastructure.

Reviewer 2: - "This feature" is somewhat ambiguous after reading the previous paragraph. What feature? The Amazon Message Delivery Service?
- This standalone sentence should either have some supporting sentences or, itself, be a supporting sentence for something else.

> EC2 instances must be configured with the SSM Agent and the necessary IAM roles

Author: There can be instances that don't have SSM Agent preinstalled. Not likely but there can be. I may need to reword this a bit. 

It will be definitely easier to have a concise name for the feature. Maybe "Infection Monkey AWS Execution" ?

---
title: "Infection Monkey AWS Execution"
draft: false
description: "Run Infection Monkey on AWS EC2 instances"
tags: ["aws", "ec2", "ssm", "agent", "run"]
pre: "<i class='fa-brands fa-aws'></i> "
---

## Description

Infection Monkey enables the simulation of various attack scenarios
across your AWS infrastructure without the requirement of any manual installation.

Executing Infection Monkey on AWS EC2 instances is facilitated by the
[AWS Systems Manager (SSM) Agent](
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/systems-manager/latest/userguide/ssm-agent.html).
Each EC2 instance has an SSM Agent installed for updating, managing, and
configuring the instance. It executes requests received from
the [AWS Systems Manager](
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/systems-manager/latest/userguide/what-is-systems-manager.html),
and uses the [Amazon Message Delivery Service](
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/service-authorization/latest/reference/list_amazonmessagedeliveryservice.html)
to report back status and execution details.

## Prerequisites

> 1. Run Infection Monkey on an EC2 instance with SSM Agent installed.
> 2. AWS EC2 instance must have the necessary IAM roles to allow the SSM
> Agent to execute commands.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Ensure that the SSM Agent is installed on the EC2 instance on which Infection Monkey will run.
1. Ensure that the EC2 instance has the necessary IAM roles to allow the SSM Agent to execute commands.
```

---
title: "Infection Monkey AWS Execution"
draft: false
description: "Run Infection Monkey on AWS EC2 instances"
tags: ["aws", "ec2", "ssm", "agent", "run"]
pre: "<i class='fa-brands fa-aws'></i> "
---

## Description

Infection Monkey enables the simulation of various attack scenarios
across your AWS infrastructure without the requirement of any manual installation.

Executing Infection Monkey on AWS EC2 instances is facilitated by the
[AWS Systems Manager (SSM) Agent](
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/systems-manager/latest/userguide/ssm-agent.html).
Each EC2 instance has an SSM Agent installed for updating, managing, and
configuring the instance. It executes requests received from
the [AWS Systems Manager](
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/systems-manager/latest/userguide/what-is-systems-manager.html),
and uses the [Amazon Message Delivery Service](
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/service-authorization/latest/reference/list_amazonmessagedeliveryservice.html)
to report back status and execution details.

## Prerequisites

1. Ensure that the SSM Agent is installed on the EC2 instance on which
Infection Monkey will run.
1. Ensure that the EC2 instance has the necessary IAM roles to allow

> the SSM Agent to execute commands.

Reviewer 2: This starts to feel like a "how to".

pre: "<i class='fa-brands fa-aws'></i> "
---

## Description

Infection Monkey enables the simulation of various attack scenarios
across your AWS infrastructure without the requirement of any manual installation.

Executing Infection Monkey on AWS EC2 instances is facilitated by the
[AWS Systems Manager (SSM) Agent](
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/systems-manager/latest/userguide/ssm-agent.html).
Each EC2 instance has an SSM Agent installed for updating, managing, and
configuring the instance. It executes requests received from
the [AWS Systems Manager](
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/systems-manager/latest/userguide/what-is-systems-manager.html),
and uses the [Amazon Message Delivery Service](
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/service-authorization/latest/reference/list_amazonmessagedeliveryservice.html)
to report back status and execution details.

## Prerequisites

In order to ensure that Infection Monkey can be executed on an EC2 instance,
the SSM Agent must be present on the target instance.
Additionally, the instance must have the necessary IAM roles to allow the SSM
Agent to execute commands.

## Running Infection Monkey on AWS EC2 Instances

> Monkey Island can be deployed manually on any EC2 instance with a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Monkey Island can be deployed manually on any EC2 instance with a
```

---
title: "Infection Monkey AWS Execution"
draft: false
description: "Run Infection Monkey on AWS EC2 instances"
tags: ["aws", "ec2", "ssm", "agent", "run"]
pre: "<i class='fa-brands fa-aws'></i> "
---

## Description

> The Infection Monkey can run on AWS EC2 instances using the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Infection Monkey can run on AWS EC2 instances using the
```

[AWS Systems Manager (SSM) Agent](
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/systems-manager/latest/userguide/ssm-agent.html).
Each EC2 instance has an SSM Agent installed for updating, managing, and
configuring the instance. It executes requests received from
the [AWS Systems Manager](
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/systems-manager/latest/userguide/what-is-systems-manager.html),
and uses the [Amazon Message Delivery Service](
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/service-authorization/latest/reference/list_amazonmessagedeliveryservice.html)
to report back status and execution details.

Infection Monkey AWS Execution lets you run Infection Monkey Agent on your
chosen EC2 instances without the requirement of manual installation, enabling

> the simulation of various attack scenarios across your AWS infrastructure.

Reviewer: Move the last paragraph up towards the beginning and start this section with something like, "Infection Monkey can be run on AWS EC2 instances without any manual installation required, enabling the simulation of various attack scenarios across your AWS infrastructure," or, "Infection Monkey enables the simulation of various attack scenarios across your AWS infrastructure without the requirement of any manual installation."

I prefer the second. It's enough for the introduction and other details will be explained in the sections ahead and in the how-to.

## Prerequisites

> In order to ensure that Infection Monkey can be executed on EC2 instance,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to ensure that Infection Monkey can be executed on an EC2 instance,
```

the SSM Agent must be present on the target instance. The list of AWS AMIs
that come with the SSM Agent pre-installed can be found [here](

> https://docs.aws.amazon.com/systems-manager/latest/userguide/ami-preinstalled-agent.html).

Reviewer: "The list of AWS AMIs that come with the SSM Agent pre-installed..."

This isn't relevant to Infection Monkey. We can get rid of it.

Author: It is relevant for where this feature can run on.

Reviewer: Saying the SSM Agent needs to be on the system is enough information wrt Infection Monkey. Which instances have it pre-installed is solely an AWS thing which the users can look up themselves if they need to. It's out of place here.

Additionally, the instance must have the necessary IAM roles to allow the SSM
Agent to execute commands.

## Running Infection Monkey on AWS EC2 Instances

The Monkey Island can be deployed on any EC2 instance with

> [supproted Operating System](

Reviewer: ```suggestion
a [supported operating system](
```

> ../../reference/system-requirements/#supported-operating-systems) or using

Reviewer: ```suggestion
../../reference/system-requirements/#supported-operating-systems) or using the
```

[Infection Monkey AMI](https://aws.amazon.com/marketplace/pp/prodview-b3oqimxzrd762).

> When deployed the Monkey Island will automatically detect running on AWS instance
> and offer the option to deploy the Monkey Agent on EC2 instances with
> SSM Agent installed on them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When deployed, the Monkey Island will automatically detect that it is running on an AWS instance
and offer the option to run an Infection Monkey Agent on EC2 instances having
SSM Agents.
```

> ![Running a Monkey on EC2 Instance](
> /images/island/integrations/aws/run_on_aws_ec2.png "Running a Monkey on EC2
> Instance")

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![Running Infection Monkey on EC2 Instances](
/images/island/integrations/aws/run_on_aws_ec2.png "Running Infection Monkey on EC2
Instances")
```
